---
title: Logo and basic branding for Cafe ROCK
thumbnail: portfolio/rock/logo.png
date: January 1, 2019
---

Once in a while, you get to work on a smooth-sailing project. A project that is
pleasant throughout. This was one such project. Me and the client had fluid
communication from the get go and that helped me collect the right data to make
a perfect logo.

## 1. Meeting, talking

The first meeting is crucial to the success of the project. It is where you vet
each other, see if you'd work well together, set expectations, negotiate,
sometimes part ways, sometimes shake hands.

The owner of the business was easy going. I immediately knew that he would be a
pleasure to work with. He had some ideas, but didn't force them. He really
wanted someone professional to take care of the details.

### The Detail

The project was designing a logo for a cafe located in Kasol, a beautiful hamlet
in Parvati valley on the banks of river Parvati.

<div className="grid grid-cols-5 grid-rows-3 gap-3">
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridColumn: 'span 3', gridRow: 'span 3' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover drop-shadow-lg"
      src="/portfolio/rock/kasol-valley-river.jpg "
      alt="A beautiful photo of Kasol in the Parvati valley"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridColumn: 'span 2' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover drop-shadow-lg"
      src="/portfolio/rock/kasol-valley.jpg"
      alt="A beautiful photo of Kasol in the Parvati valley"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridColumn: 'span 2' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover drop-shadow-lg"
      src="/portfolio/rock/kasol-fest.jpg"
      alt="A beautiful photo of Kasol in the Parvati valley"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridColumn: 'span 2' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover drop-shadow-lg"
      src="/portfolio/rock/kasol-farm.jpg"
      alt="A beautiful photo of Kasol in the Parvati valley"
    />
  </Zoom>
</div>

The cafe is named Cafe ROCK: **Realm Of Coffee Kasol** and is located at the end
of a quiet road that led directly to the bank of river Parvati.

At the end of our meeting, I had enough information to get started on the
project.

<div className="flex justify-center my-6">
  <div className="relative rounded-sm border border-gray-200 text-primary-500 -rotate-1 bg-white drop-shadow-md">
    <h2 className="m-0 py-3 pl-6 pr-3 text-primary-500 border-b border-accent-200 before:-translate-x-3 before:top-0 before:bottom-0 before:absolute before:border-l before:border-accent-200">
      Attributes
    </h2>
    <ol className="divide-y divide-gray-200">
      <li className="flex flex-col divide-y divide-gray-200">
        <strong className="pl-6 pr-3">
          Classy{' '}
          <sub className="font-serif italic font-normal">(adjective)</sub>
        </strong>
        <span className="pl-6 pr-3 font-serif italic text-gray-600 leading-7 text-sm decoration-clone">
          Having or reflecting high standards of personal behaviour
        </span>
        <span>&nbsp;</span>
      </li>
      <li className="flex flex-col divide-y divide-gray-200">
        <strong className="pl-6 pr-3">
          Country <sub className="font-serif italic font-normal">(noun)</sub>
        </strong>{' '}
        <span className="pl-6 pr-3 font-serif italic text-gray-600 leading-7 text-sm decoration-clone">
          A rural area
        </span>
        <span>&nbsp;</span>
      </li>
      <li className="flex flex-col divide-y divide-gray-200">
        <strong className="pl-6 pr-3">
          Realm <sub className="font-serif italic font-normal">(noun)</sub>
        </strong>{' '}
        <span className="pl-6 pr-3 font-serif italic text-gray-600 leading-7 text-sm decoration-clone">
          A royal domain; kingdom
        </span>
      </li>
    </ol>
  </div>
</div>

## 2. Sketching

I start churning the take-aways from the meeting in my head. And then, start
sketching - my favorite part of the project. Sketching makes me think. Thinking
helps with exploration. I sketch a wide variety of ideas that have little in
common - abstract and concrete.

<div className="grid grid-cols-3 gap-3 drop-shadow-lg">
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/attribute.001.jpg"
      alt="Sketches for ROCK - Spread 1"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/attribute.002.jpg"
      alt="Sketches for ROCK - Spread 2"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/attribute.003.jpg"
      alt="Sketches for ROCK - Spread 3"
    />
  </Zoom>
</div>

Usuaully, I don't prefer to reach my computer at this phase. Unless I find
myself stuck and do image searches of the brand attributes to get inspired.

<div className="grid grid-cols-4 grid-rows-2 gap-3 drop-shadow-lg">
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridColumn: 'span 2' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/rock-sketches-1.jpg"
      alt="Sketches for ROCK - Spread 1"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridRow: 'span 2', gridColumn: 'span 2' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/rock-sketches-3.jpg"
      alt="Sketches for ROCK - Spread 3"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridColumn: 'span 2' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/rock-sketches-2.jpg"
      alt="Sketches for ROCK - Spread 2"
    />
  </Zoom>
</div>

It's like slow cooking, but of ideas. In a while, ideas start cooking and I can
smell success. Then, I go all in in that particular direction.

## 3. Vectorization

Having a sketch of the final concept makes the vectorization trivial.

Sometimes, I strip down a few unnecessary details during this phase. For
instance, I dropped the flag on top of the cup.

<center>
  <video
    className="rounded-md max-w-sm"
    controls
    src="/portfolio/rock/vectorization.mp4"
  />
</center>

Back when I did this project, I used to use Illustrator for my vector work.
These days however, I prefer Sketch or Affinity Designer.

## 4. Pattern

I couldn't help but use the mountains I drew during the vectorization as a
pattern. Not that it was intended, but the pattern ended up looking like waves
of water. This fulfilled my wish to inculcate the river Parvati in the branding.

<Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
  <img
    className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
    src="/portfolio/rock/pattern.jpg"
    alt="Pattern for Cafe ROCK - Spread 2"
  />
</Zoom>

## 5. Colors

I don't always prescribe a color palette for my logo projects. That's the job
for branding. For this project however, the client needed a palette to paint the
cafe.

I won't lie. My color picking process is basic. I just eye-ball the
combinations. But the process isn't an undisciplined one. I use the brand
attributes I picked earlier as a guide.

<div className="grid grid-cols-2 grid-rows-2 gap-3 drop-shadow-lg">
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/colors-2.jpg"
      alt="Colors for ROCK"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/colors-3.jpg"
      alt="Colors for ROCK"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40} wrapStyle={{ gridColumn: 'span 2' }}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/colors-1.jpg"
      alt="Colors for ROCK"
    />
  </Zoom>
</div>

I settled on a combination that looks really classy on display and on the
interiors.

## 6. Possible Applications

It always help drive the project home with mock-ups of logo and brand
application. Not only does it help the client see everything in action. It also
helps me as the designer see the application for what it is instead of
imagining.

<div className="grid grid-cols-2 grid-rows-2 gap-3 drop-shadow-lg">
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/applications-1.jpg"
      alt="Colors for ROCK"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/applications-2.jpg"
      alt="Colors for ROCK"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/applications-3.jpg"
      alt="Colors for ROCK"
    />
  </Zoom>
  <Zoom zoomMargin={40}>
    <img
      className="rounded-md w-full h-full object-cover"
      src="/portfolio/rock/applications-4.jpg"
      alt="Colors for ROCK"
    />
  </Zoom>
</div>

## 7. Closure

I was quite confident about this option so I did the unimaginable â€“ I pitched
just this one option. And the client (and his father) loved it.

With zero follow-up changes, we wrapped the project to satisfaction.
